>>RICHARD RUDD: It's called
Gene Keys, because it's all
wired into our DNA.
This is actually
talking biology here.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
>>RUDD: It's a bit
like opening a safe.
You turn it one way, click.
You turn it another way,
there's another Gene Key, click.
And then you turn it
another way back, click.
And you get to the oldest
one, and then the door opens,
and your heart starts to
breathe and live again.
In 1996, I had a huge
series of revelations
that I've been
unpacking ever since.
It's a journey you take
through deep contemplation.
And in that process
of contemplation,
you unlock your own gifts.
You can do it now.
You can do it tomorrow.
You can keep doing it.
And what you're doing
is you're creating space
for transformation to occur.
>>REGINA: One of the favorite
topics of our community
is finding new systems
that both divine and make
sense of our lives and times.
One of the more elegant
systems is the Gene Keys,
established by Richard Rudd.
The beauty of the
system is that it
takes levels of consciousness
into consideration,
which is not the norm in
most divination systems.
So Richard, let's dive in.
Welcome.
You and I are friends,
and I know you,
but most of our audience
may be new to you.
Some have already gone
down this rabbit hole.
And it is so beautiful,
so elegant, so complex,
so we need to let
people get to know
the fellow that started it all.
[LAUGHTER]
>>RUDD: I'm here.
>>REGINA: So why don't
we just dive right in.
First of all, you're British.
You had a wonderful
upbringing in life,
outside of maybe going
to public school.
>>RUDD: Yeah, that was
a little bit more hairy.
>>REGINA: And maybe just explain
that, because it's, I think,
important for people to know.
This comes up with some
of my British guests
who are well-educated in
that system, it's scary.
Prince Charles, now
King Charles, was--
>>RUDD: Totally.
>>REGINA: --brutalized by it.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
No, totally.
You know, I was sent off
at 7 to boarding school.
And that was just a deep trauma
that's lived in me ever since.
And so in some respects,
a lot of my work
has actually come
out of that trauma,
and it's been about
healing that trauma.
So it had its purpose, but
it wasn't fun at the time.
>>REGINA: No.
I don't think I've ever met
a British man that actually
had a good time at school
when they were sent away
to public school.
It just seemed
that discipline, I
don't know what it was trying
to shape these little boys into,
but I mean,
bordering on cruelty.
>>RUDD: Mm-hmm, definitely.
>>REGINA: And yet, you
have loving parents.
They were doing the
right thing by you.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
Well, my father went also.
So that was how it was done.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RUDD: You didn't question it.
And so what is the
system built for?
>>RUDD: Well, I think it's
just-- it's what you said.
It's built to shape the
young leaders of the future.
And so that was why
they designed it
in that way; discipline,
and education, and values.
I mean, they did have good
values, but it was just,
there was no emotion.
There was no feminine--
>>REGINA: Emotional deprivation.
No feminine.
>>RUDD: No feminine, no.
>>REGINA: Oh, well, OK.
So now, you're making up for it.
>>RUDD: I'm definitely
making up for it.
>>REGINA: And the Gene
Keys makes up for it.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's
go to Gene Keys.
So you're a young
man, and you're also--
you're searching for something.
And let's talk about
the lead-up to finding
Human Design and the
structure that gave you.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
Well, before that, I had
this series of visions.
And so that was in the
order of the flow of it.
That was in 1996.
I had a spiritual
awakening, I guess.
I mean, everyone
says that nowadays.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>RUDD: Do you want me to
talk about that a little bit?
>>REGINA: Oh,
yeah, yeah, please.
>>RUDD: So mine was a bit odd.
Because I woke up in the
morning, out of my bed,
out of sleep, and I woke
up into a heightened
state of consciousness.
So I just transitioned from
the dream into the awakening.
And it stayed like that for
three days and three nights.
And I've talked about it
quite a lot here and there.
And I always say the story
gets better every time.
I throw something new in.
A lot happened in those
three days and three nights.
And I didn't sleep.
And I was in an altered--
I mean, a fully awakened
state of consciousness
is how I would refer to it, with
light pouring through my body.
And the light had an
intelligence to it.
So it wasn't just an experience,
there was an omniscience to it
as well, which I
know is a big word.
But I could see things
and remember things.
And I could remember the
future, as well as the past.
So I realized there was a
state out of timelessness
in which memory travels
in all directions,
not just as we think it,
linear towards the past.
So for me, I had a huge
series of revelations
that I've been unpacking
ever since, actually.
>>REGINA: So from there--
because this kind of happened
again, but from there,
what happened?
And how did you stumble
into Human Design?
>>RUDD: Well, I guess, part of
my process of trying to come
to terms with that experience
after it ended and I was back
to being this guy,
the wounded guy from--
the traumatized young lad--
>>REGINA: Still at school.
>>RUDD: --I spent a long
time trying to process that
and trying to work out what
I was supposed to do with it.
It's not like I was given some
complete system like the Gene
Keys.
I didn't have any structure.
And so I had this revelation,
but I had no language for it.
So, I think, I spent most of
my 20s traveling the world,
studying with
different teachers.
I was lucky I had a little--
I had just enough inheritance
to be able to be free to travel.
But I wasn't very, very
rich, or anything like that.
But it was just enough so that
I could travel around the world,
and work here and
there, and just explore
what I was interested in, after
having had that experience.
And Human Design was
one thing that went off
in me quite powerfully.
The first time I saw one
of those body graphs,
I had a very profound
moment of memory.
And so I followed that strand.
I ended up in America
with the founder, Ra.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And it's funny, because I know
people in the Human Design
system who remember
you from back then.
>>RUDD: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
when you were a kid.
>>RUDD: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: And they said you had
quite a profound understanding
of Human Design as
well, at the time.
>>RUDD: Yeah, I did.
I mean, I connected well
with Ra, which wasn't
the case for many people.
>>REGINA: No, almost no one.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
And we had a kind of a quite
a profound intimacy together,
as much as most people could,
I think, other than his family.
And so, yeah, through that,
he offered me the rights
to the UK, to do it in the UK.
And so I set up a school.
I set up one of the first
Human Design schools
and started teaching in the UK.
It was quite successful.
The first time I'd done
anything like that.
It was completely new.
No one had a clue what it was.
So it was quite fun.
It was a bit
nerve-racking at times,
because I was just pioneering.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you
were a young fellow.
>>RUDD: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: It's interesting,
because his own story was
similar to yours, where he had
this blasting download that
lasted for days and just
showed itself architecturally.
And the interesting
thing is Human Design
is very architectural.
Gene Keys is like
an evolution of that
into an expanded state of
consciousness and awareness,
with the levels of
consciousness and the elegance
of the explanations of these
Keys made very full for us.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
You see, both systems are
rooted in the I Ching,
Chinese I Ching, right?
And so I had in my travels
studied with Daoist teachers,
and particularly, one lovely man
called Hua-Ching Ni, Master Ni.
And he wrote one of the
best books still existing
on I Ching.
And so I became
affiliated to him,
and also, Mantak Chia, who
was a very brilliant teacher,
still is.
And so I really explored
those modalities.
And then I brought
something of that
into Human Design,
especially Master Ni,
because he carried the
living transmission.
He was an awakened, amazing man.
You'd go and visit
him, and there
was this kind of golden
glow that just came off him.
And you're just
sitting in his presence
and all this wisdom
was just emanating.
And so I kind of
had that experience
to bring into Human Design.
And it started to
change my understanding
and change my direction from
Ra's view, which was really
hard, because he was my mentor.
And it's a tricky thing when
you go in a different direction
from your mentor.
>>REGINA: Very tricky.
How did he navigate that?
>>RUDD: Well, he was--
>>REGINA: I've never
asked you that.
>>RUDD: No.
He was an unusual man, Ra.
And his normal way of
falling out with someone
or diverting with someone
was just to chop them off.
And I didn't allow
that to happen.
I worked really hard to maintain
a graciousness between us.
I remember going to visit him
in Ibiza, where he was living,
carrying this news
that I was leaving
and I was going off
in a new direction.
He was very gracious, actually.
And I stayed--
>>REGINA: Well, he could see
the beauty and the light in you.
>>RUDD: I think so.
And he had a fondness for me.
I think he was
pissed off, you know.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I would guess.
>>RUDD: And I thought I was--
I think he assumed I had
gone adrift in some way,
at some level.
But he kind of loved
me in his own way,
and so we actually
ended quite well.
And I offered him
the rights back.
It was a lovely thing.
It was like-- because
I could have sold them
for quite a lot of money.
But because he'd given
them to me for free,
I felt like, here they are, I
want to give them back to you,
with a recommendation
of another person who
could take over them.
So it was a clean closure.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
>>RUDD: And it felt like there
weren't any nasty things left.
So I was kind of like,
oh, thank God, that.
>>REGINA: I'm so
glad to hear that.
>>RUDD: Yeah, I know.
>>REGINA: Because I don't
know why I never asked you
how he responded, yeah.
So, OK, we've got that
part of the story.
So now, more happens, and then
the Gene Keys, the 64 Keys
themselves are birthed.
>>RUDD: Yeah, exactly.
So I then started to innovate.
And the main problem I'd
had with the Human Design
was the language.
And I'm a linguist, I'm a
poet, I studied literature,
I'm a lover of
language, and I just
found the language locked me
in to a certain tight cast
and tight way of thinking.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was saying earlier,
it's very architectural
in its design.
It's mechanical almost.
>>RUDD: Yeah, yeah, it was,
but I didn't mind that part.
It was just that it didn't
feel like it was complete.
It didn't feel like
it had a language that
was full spectrum.
And Ra himself wasn't--
although he surfed the
higher planes at times,
he wasn't really
enamored of them.
And he had a dark
sense of humor.
He used to say things like
it stinks of angels in here.
And so he had that wonderful
dark sense of humor
that many people came to
appreciate, me included.
But after a while, I felt
this needs to go further.
So I started to create this new
language, and a new spectrum
of words that came out of it,
for the 64 archetypes, which
were laid down from the I Ching.
And that language gave birth
to the Gene Keys, essentially.
>>REGINA: And I said this
when I was introducing you,
and what is so unique about
it, in all of these systems,
they give you a very
direct Key as to the name
of your particular
personality trait,
or what your potential
is, and so forth.
But the Gene Keys is unique in
that it goes on three levels,
from the Shadow, to the
Gift, to the Siddhi,
which is what I found so
beautiful and unique about it.
It requires genuine self-honesty
to work with the Keys.
And I think if there's ever
a problem with the Keys
with anyone, it's only when
we're not willing to look at
and acknowledge,
I'm still living
the lower end of this particular
element of my character
or being.
>>RUDD: Exactly.
And that was what the
language is based on.
And I'm a lover of
trinities and threes.
So that notion of having
a shadow spectrum so
that you could understand
all the wounding patterns,
and the trauma patterns
that lie in humanity,
and therefore your
particular ones, that gave
rise to this sort
of wound map, which
is what you see in some
of the Gene Keys profiles.
And you can track that.
So it's shadow work.
It's deep.
It's gritty stuff.
It's not just like a
nice, fun esoteric system.
It's gritty.
You have to do the work.
>>REGINA: But people
that go into it
have such immense
respect for it,
because it does require
integrity and honesty.
That's all we should be asking
of ourselves to begin with,
is just to show up
naked and honest.
And it can really add
such dimension and depth
to your understanding of the
times and your own place in it.
>>RUDD: Totally.
And the first thing for me
was to use it on myself,
so to understand my own shadow
patterns and my own traumas,
and use it to bring me
through those patterns.
So dishonesty was one
of mine, actually.
And I did find deep places
of dishonesty in my being,
in layers.
And as I came to terms
with those places
of where I was
dishonoring myself,
I started to heal my heart.
And then more love
started to come out,
not just in me, but also
through the language
and through the system.
I obviously wrote my book out
of that, "The Gene Keys" book,
which was a huge undertaking.
>>REGINA: Oh my gosh, a tome.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Yes.
It's beautiful, because you
don't read it as a book per se.
You dive into your
Keys, and then
your friends' or
your children's.
And you ultimately
gather the knowledge
through reflection of yourself
and the ones you love.
But it's interesting you say
that, because one of mine--
and at the time I thought, I
wonder where that's showing up,
you know--
it was deafness.
>>RUDD: Yeah, of course.
>>REGINA: And I
very recently begun
to understand how deaf I've
been in certain areas of life
and why.
And so, yes, it was very helpful
to reflect back, wait a minute,
and go into it, because now,
I can heal it going forward.
So let's go into
the Keys themselves.
>>RUDD: Sure.
>>REGINA: OK, so we
talked about that.
We're going to
show a chart here,
so people can kind of
see what this looks like.
And first of all, there
are different pathways.
And I want to say this,
this is very cool.
Anyone can go to genekeys.com
right now, while you're
watching this, right?
>>RUDD: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: Pause, do a
pause, go to genekeys.com,
and you'll see FREE PROFILE.
Click on the FREE PROFILE--
it's just like entering
your information for
an astrological chart--
and let it pop up, so
you can see what it
looks like on your own chart.
And you can go along
with Richard and I
as he's talking about
these pathways, OK?
>>RUDD: Great.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's assume
most everybody has downloaded
it, and they're taking a peek at
their own as they're listening.
OK, so let's start with
the first page that
gives your primary three
Keys on the three pathways.
Can you talk about what
those three Keys are?
>>RUDD: Yes.
It's four Keys, three pathways.
>>REGINA: Three
pathways, four Keys, yes.
>>RUDD: Yeah, they're
called your life's work,
your evolution, your
radiance, and your purpose.
And those who know Human
Design will recognize them
from what's called the
incarnation cross, which is--
they're the archetypes of
what you're here to do,
and your deep core
purpose in life, and how
you get in the
way of it, how you
open up the genius in your life
and find that higher purpose.
And so there's simple pathways.
It's a simple process.
It's universal.
It's Challenge, that's the
first pathway, Breakthrough,
and there's Core Stability.
And so as you go into a
contemplation of these codes,
of your Keys, you meet
the Challenge first.
And the Challenge is, like,
what is the greatest challenge
in my life?
So you can look at the one that
says Evolution, for example,
and you can look at the
shadow pattern there.
And you can see that's
probably one of the biggest
challenges in your life.
For me, it's doubt,
right-- self-doubt.
And so I've had to
really understand
where that doubt comes from.
But then there's a gift in
every one of those challenges,
so you have to look at, well,
what's the next word up.
>>REGINA: So let's
go with your doubt--
the Key, and your
doubt, and what that is.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
So the gift in doubt
is inquiry, right?
So doubt is a
fundamental basis of--
like the scientific
process, right?
You begin with, like, I
don't know how this works.
Let's take it apart and
figure out how it works.
So for me, that's been like,
I've got to understand myself.
I've got to understand
how this works.
I've got to understand how
these Gene Keys operate.
So I took them
apart inside myself.
And then I started
to find the gift.
So I'm a great
inquirer, you know.
So that's one of my
prime gifts is inquiry
into the depth of things.
And then even deeper is
what we call the Siddhi.
That's the Gift in its
ultimate flowering.
Siddhi is a Sanskrit word.
There's no English word, so I
had to borrow it from Sanskrit.
Siddhi, divine power in a way,
or enlightened self-expression,
or superpower, if you like.
What's your superpower?
So you can look at
those Siddhis and you'll
see your superpowers.
And for me--
>>REGINA: And so it's
the superpower there.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
So doubt, inquiry, truth.
Truth-- Truth with a
capital T. And Truth,
it's not just
speaking the truth,
it's truth as an experience,
as an embodied experience.
So that Truth for
me is what I felt
in my three-day
experience, for example.
I experienced the
embodiment of Truth.
It's beyond words.
It's beyond understanding.
I can't tell you
what it felt like.
It's just, I knew stuff.
>>REGINA: You knew stuff.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Now, what Key is that?
>>RUDD: That's 63.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And there are 64
Keys, as you say.
>>RUDD: There are 64, yeah.
So that's an example of
how to unlock your profile.
And then you open up
these breakthroughs.
>>REGINA: And the thing is the
way you have it set up there,
you can--
so if you happen to have
the book, the tome, right,
"The Gene Keys," the
codes to everything,
that gives these beautiful
explanations on all three
levels of each Key.
So what you would
do is you would
look at these initial paragraphs
that encapsulate that,
and then you can go
dive down into it
and see where you are in it
on a level of consciousness.
>>RUDD: Yeah, the
paragraphs are just teasers.
>>REGINA: They're
teasers, but they're good.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
Yeah, they're teasers to get
you to unlock your imagination.
But essentially, Gene Keys
doesn't do it for you.
I call it a path of
self-illumination.
It's a journey you take
through deep contemplation.
And in that process
of contemplation,
you unlock your own gifts.
I can't do it for you.
>>REGINA: Well, I
found it right on.
The first time I did it, I
looked at it and I thought,
oh my gosh, I've got to go
a little deeper into this,
because each one of
those short paragraphs
struck a very deep truth in me.
And so for mine, just
to peek at it, Key 49--
yeah, Key 49-- the purpose and
the Key of 49, what is that?
Can you tell us what that is?
And then I'm going to
do 43, my life's work.
>>RUDD: So 49, the Shadow,
reaction, the Gift, revolution,
and the Siddhi, rebirth.
So you can see the
progression of those words.
And they're states
of consciousness.
So reaction is a victim state.
All the shadows
are victim states.
They're feedback loops.
So every time you get caught
in the reactive process,
you're stuck in it.
And it just goes on
in your relationships,
and you're stuck in that loop.
And you can't escape
in a way, unless you
see the pattern yourself.
And then you unearth it, and
you start to transform it.
So it's a transformational
system, Gene Keys.
So you have to do that work.
You have to do it in
your relationships
and break out of those patterns.
>>REGINA: And then it
goes to revolution.
>>RUDD: Revolution,
then you start to use--
the same energy at
a higher frequency
becomes creative
revolution, right?
So you can then
use it creatively.
And every Gift is basically
a creative impulse that
is released from the Shadow.
So the Shadow
makes us miserable.
And it feels bad.
And it affects
our-- you know, it's
called Gene Keys because
it's all wired into our DNA.
We're actually
talking biology here.
So a shadow pattern is
rooted in our biology.
And so it shuts down
pathways in our brain.
It shuts down the
way we see things,
it makes us feel miserable, it
affects our moods, all of that.
So when you begin to
unlock one of these gifts,
you are re-rooting pathways
and genes, expressions
of genes in your actual DNA.
And through that, you start
to release vitality, which
comes out often as creativity.
So suddenly, you've got
this creative genius
that starts to emerge, and
your life starts to pick up.
You feel different.
Your sleep patterns change.
Your dreaming changes.
So many things rooted
in our endocrine system
change because the genes
are governing all that.
You know, in the beginning,
when I shared Gene Keys,
I had this line, I used to
say, you are the architect
of your evolution.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
And that is so true.
>>RUDD: And it's
true, I know that.
Many people say that nowadays.
And it's true, and that this is
a living experience of actually
undergoing that process.
It's very personal to each
person and very powerful.
So then you have rebirth,
and that's hard to explain.
The Siddhis are hard to explain.
Often, they come as
epiphanies in our life.
And so as you begin to let that
revolutionary-- like you've
lived a revolutionary
life, I happen to know.
And the more you
have the courage
to bring that out in a
positive way, then eventually,
every now and again, there's
a rebirth of some form.
And probably,
something in your life
collapses in order for something
amazingly new to be born.
>>REGINA: Oh, usually,
it all blows up at once,
in one period of time,
heavy duty stuff at once.
And then boom, there's something
else on the other side.
>>RUDD: So you've just described
the process in every Gene Key.
Because every Gene Key
describes the same process,
but through slightly
different variations.
>>REGINA: And so
your purpose Key--
let's talk about
your purpose Key,
because we can see what
you've done with your life.
How is it reflected
in the Gene Keys?
>>RUDD: My purpose is
the Gene Key of patience.
[LAUGHTER]
So it's taken me a
long time to get here.
And I've dug very deep
inside my own journey.
And the shadow of
impatience or restlessness
is that energy that just has
undermined me in many ways.
And I didn't know
what I was here to do.
But then really
harnessing that patience,
but not as just waiting,
but patience as trust,
trust that it will unfold in
its own timing, everything.
And that if you trust
in that process,
then everything's different.
Because then you're
not getting in the way.
You're not trying to
move your life along,
or you're not trying to think
your way through your life,
you're allowing it to unravel.
And that's also the
story of every gift.
And finally, the
Siddhi is timelessness,
so it's about accessing
spaces out of time
and seeing, understanding--
>>REGINA: Which is
what happened to you--
>>RUDD: Which is
what happened to me.
>>REGINA: --when you were
having your downloads.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RUDD: So purpose is also
different from life's work
at the top, if you're
looking at your profile.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK, what's your
life's work then?
>>RUDD: Well, life's work is
63, so that's what I'm doing.
Life's work is what I'm
doing, sharing the Gene Keys--
64.
So I'm sharing all 64 Keys.
And it's about imagination
and illumination,
and so that's what I'm doing,
sharing that, and helping
people with confusion, because
that's the shadow, hopefully,
anyway.
>>REGINA: So it pervades
everything right now--
>>RUDD: Everything.
>>REGINA: --Confusion.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>RUDD: So that's what
you're here to do,
but your purpose is different.
The purpose is about being.
So for me, it's about
a state of being.
Patience is a state of being.
So everything about
these teachings
is about trying to share with
people what I am learning
and continue to
learn is slow down.
And when you slow down,
everything comes to you.
>>REGINA: Well, this
would be a good time
to insert in there
your lovely book,
"The Art of Contemplation."
>>RUDD: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Because
I love that book.
It is, I think, one of the
more poignant guides to not
only explaining the need
for and the beauty in--
the purpose in slowing
down and taking time,
taking a lot of time if you
need to, to contemplate each
of-- like the thing
I was talking about,
deafness, taking time
to just sit with that
and think, why did
you allow yourself not
to see this or hear this.
And then just-- you don't have
to have the answer immediately.
So "The Art of Contemplation"
is a very beautiful book
to encourage people
to take their time,
to allow the answers to
bubble up from inside,
and then they're
genuinely there.
It's not just a band-aid answer.
>>RUDD: No.
So, yeah, I wrote "The Gene--"
obviously "The Gene Keys" book
is like 600 pages, or
something, and it's just dense.
And so I wrote the little
book on contemplation.
It was to distill
that quintessence
of what it is that I'm
really trying to share.
And it's under 100 pages, and
you can read it in a few hours.
I'm actually more proud
of it than the big book,
because I distilled it.
>>REGINA: You distilled
it beautifully.
>>RUDD: And I could
only do that after--
later, when I'd
learned patience and I
started to realize
how patience operates.
And patience-- one of my
great teachers, he said,
patience is the
vanguard of love.
He's Beinsa Douno,
a Bulgarian sage.
And I love that statement.
>>REGINA: That's beautiful.
>>RUDD: My whole life is
wrapped around that statement.
>>REGINA: And the book is
so fulfilling and soothing.
I've given it as
gifts to people.
It's a slim volume.
>>RUDD: Yeah, tiny.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
but like you said,
you're more proud of
that even than the Keys.
Because right now, the one
thing no one has is patience.
>>RUDD: True.
>>REGINA: Society,
the world, everything
seems to be speeding up.
And we're encouraged through all
of the mechanisms to go faster
and to think less,
take bite-size pieces.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
And, you know,
this deep wisdom--
because that's
what Gene Keys is,
wisdom, rather than knowledge.
Wisdom requires patience.
And it requires
that you do create
pauses in your life
regularly, which
is what this "Art of
Contemplation" is all about,
is the contemplative way.
Anyone can do it.
The moment you read that book,
you can do it immediately.
You can create pauses
in your life so easily.
You can do it now.
You can do it tomorrow.
You can keep doing it.
And what you're doing
is you're creating space
for transformation to occur.
And if you don't
create those spaces,
transformation doesn't occur.
>>REGINA: Well, the higher
voice never comes through.
It's very difficult
for it to come.
It's pounding on the door, but
there's no space to hear it.
And so I recently-- it's
brand-new-- you have an app.
>>RUDD: We have an app.
>>REGINA: You have a pause app.
>>RUDD: I'm so excited.
>>REGINA: I just saw it.
>>RUDD: It's so cool.
>>REGINA: It's amazing.
So if you're just
kind of overwhelmed,
or if you have a little sliver
of time and can slip away,
go to the little toilet
stall at the office,
if you have to, with
your earbuds in,
and you can pause for
three minutes, or whatever.
And it gives you all
these different ways
in which to pause and engage,
whether it's music or tasks.
>>RUDD: I'm so proud of it.
It's such fun.
It's Triple Flame.
It's called The Triple
Flame, it's on the App Store,
and it's free.
And, yeah, it allows you
to pause in a creative way
every three hours
for three minutes.
And you can set it, you
can adapt it how you like,
and it gives you a little ding.
And then it also shows
you how many other people
are pausing right now--
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>RUDD: --which
I think is great.
>>REGINA: It is fun.
>>RUDD: Because then you
have the feeling like you're
part of a pausing community.
And also, in the
next version, you'll
be able to see who's pausing
in time zones around the world.
So there'll be, say,
this wave of people
pausing all around the
world for three minutes.
And, yeah, you're right, you can
do a little guided meditation.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's so sweet.
>>RUDD: And you can extend
it for 5 or 10 minutes.
And there's a lot of
beautiful resources in there
just to kind of chill people.
>>REGINA: Oh, I was really
impressed when I saw it.
It's so fun.
>>RUDD: Yeah, it is.
>>REGINA: So it's called
Triple Flame on the App Store.
>>RUDD: I really recommend it.
>>REGINA: And it's free.
>>RUDD: Yeah, free
and it's lovely.
It'll change your
life, just like that.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
I love it.
OK, I'm going to go to one
Key that both you and I
share, which you can
talk about, which is 56.
And if people look at the
center of their chart,
right there, that SQ,
let's talk about our SQ,
so people can go
look at theirs too.
>>RUDD: Sure.
>>REGINA: And then
our shared SQ.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
So I should say
before we go there
that working with these
Keys, it takes time.
So I created programs that
guide you through the steps.
And they're all on my website.
And I really recommend
them, because I
go into the process, the
lines, the Gene Keys.
The programs are
specific to each person.
>>REGINA: And we're going to get
into each of those, Activation,
Venus, Pearl.
So we'll just get into that
Key and then go to the path.
>>RUDD: So we're jumping right
in the deep end here, SQ,
which--
>>REGINA: Yeah, the deep
end, the center of the chart.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
So your soul's-- you
know, emanation of love,
that's really what that Key is.
>>REGINA: The SQ is
spiritual quotient.
>>RUDD: Spiritual
quotient, yeah.
It's about your soul.
It's like what is your
soul here to communicate
to the world, your heart.
And so it shows you
the style of love that
is most natural to you, right?
So you're 56.
>>REGINA: I'm the same as you.
>>RUDD: We're both 56.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>RUDD: So when you look at--
>>REGINA: 56.6.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
So it's a rascally
one, you know.
Yeah, we're rascals,
that's why we get on.
[LAUGHTER]
And every Key, I should
say, you could relate it
to a deity from different
pantheons around the world.
And so the 56 are the--
>>REGINA: It could
be Pan or something.
>>RUDD: Yeah, they're
the naughty gods.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
They're the naughty gods.
>>RUDD: They're
the naughty deities
that-- because it's
about intoxication.
It's the intoxicated God state.
And so it's-- you know, we
love being involved in--
that's the kind
of love that wants
to get involved in the
things of the world,
rather than transcend
and go-- it's like,
I want to transcend through
eating really fine food
and through drinking wine.
There's so many layers
in it that's true.
>>REGINA: So we have the
rascally one of intoxication
in the world, which
really is about love
and sharing with other people.
>>RUDD: Totally.
>>REGINA: So now,
we look at it--
we've taken a dive into
some of the specific Keys
to see what they feel like.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Now, we go to
the paths themselves.
So let's start with
the path of Activation,
and just give us an
idea of what that is.
Because there's a book for
each one of these paths.
And also, you have an audio
course, video and audio,
that's really beautiful.
Because the way you write
about it is in one language.
The way you speak
it is in another.
And I found out
last night that you
have a book called "The 64--"
>>RUDD: Ways.
>>REGINA: --Ways" that
is a transcription
of the way you speak about it.
So depending on how a
person's brain operates,
they can read it either way.
>>RUDD: Exactly.
So I'm from the--
I'm a Celt, really.
I'm Celtic.
I'm a Brit.
And so the tradition of oral
poetics is where I come from,
so I wanted to read it--
I wanted to write it, and
then I wanted to speak it.
And it did come out
completely differently.
So it took me three
years to record
all those audios, 64 of them.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that was amazing.
>>RUDD: And I should say, if you
subscribe to our "Pulse," which
is our love letter to
our community every week,
you get one of those each.
It's the Key of
the moment passing.
So you get my audio for free
in the "Pulse" every week.
It's very popular now.
People love it.
So you get to read the energy
of the Gene Key of the week
as it's transiting through.
>>REGINA: So, again, each
of these is separate books.
Each of them is an audio course
you can take at your own speed.
So what is the
path of Activation.
>>RUDD: The
Activation sequence--
it's about sequences,
as they're called.
And we unravel, we
open in sequence.
So if you think about
the mind, the mind
can open quite quickly.
But the heart, it
needs to open gently.
We're dealing with trauma.
We're dealing with wounding in
this program, in this process.
So doing things step
by step in a gentle way
is what allows us
to feel safe enough
to then start opening up.
And when you're working with
Gene Keys and these sequences,
it's in your life.
It's not like you're doing
it in a corner, in a book,
it's in your life.
You know this, right?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>RUDD: So you start getting
reflections in your life.
And you see the shadows
through your relationships.
It might be in other
people coming at you.
So you get to do the
work in your life.
And the Activation sequence is
the first one that-- as I said,
it gives you the
breakthroughs so that you
can realize this stuff works.
And that's what Core
Stability is called.
Every time you have
a breakthrough,
you feel more stable
inside yourself.
And it's quite hard
to explain to someone
who's outside the
system, the programs.
Because only once--
>>REGINA: And it's really the
contemplation that takes you
from the Shadow to the Gift.
>>RUDD: Exactly,
it's transformation.
>>REGINA: And then
you go into it,
and you allow yourself to
have the experience of it.
Yes.
>>RUDD: So once you've
had one of those events,
you're like, aah, I get it.
Now, I see what
he's talking about.
It's real.
It's an actual biological event.
So that's what makes us
start to feel stable.
And that's what we
mean by Core Stability
in that first sequence.
It's really powerful.
>>REGINA: And then the next
one is the path of Venus,
or the Venus sequence,
which has to do with love
and all its expressions
in our lives,
which is a really powerful
sequence, obviously.
>>RUDD: Yeah, it's
the deepest work
that you can do with any of
the Gene Keys, I would say.
And it's heavy stuff.
It's deep.
You need support, because
you're going to go
into this map of your wounding.
And it's going to show you
specific shadow patterns that
occurred at times in your
childhood in sequence,
and how you shut down,
and which Keys you used
in-- because they're
part of who you are--
in order to defend
your heart from hurt.
And so going backwards
through those sequence
is a bit like opening a safe.
You turn it one way, click.
You turn it another way,
there's another Gene Key, click.
And then you turn it
another way back, click.
And you get to the oldest
one, and then the door opens,
and your heart starts to
breathe and live again.
And it's really powerful.
So working with that
sequence is about working
with karma that's in us.
It's about working with
the yin-yang forces,
specifically inside our heart,
inside our mind and our heart.
And it's about working
in our relationships.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And there's more that we
could get into versus the Key
with the lines, but we don't
have time for the lines.
When you get into the book,
you can read about the lines.
And that's the only one
that I have actually
been through the entire
audio course on that.
And it is very--
what's wonderful
about it is it takes--
you have personal
responsibility,
but you're human.
We're all human.
It takes any hiding
from yourself, secrecy,
away from the need to hide away.
Because here it is out in
the open, here's this wound,
and you share it with
many other people.
And so I think
that's really key is
to take this feeling of guilt
away from people that they've
done something wrong.
>>RUDD: Exactly.
It brings us together.
>>REGINA: It brings us together.
>>RUDD: Yeah, it really does.
>>REGINA: So now we
have the Pearl sequence.
>>RUDD: Yeah, the
Pearl sequence is fun,
because it's about prosperity.
And I set it up initially
so that these would
unravel as a story and flow.
So you do part one,
part two, part three.
But then at a certain
point, my team and I
just said, let's
just make it open
so anyone can start anywhere.
And it works like that.
And so lots of women start
with the Venus work, because--
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah,
because we're women.
>>RUDD: --it's the emotional--
it's the emotional work, right?
And men don't want to do that.
Generally, the men want
to get to the money one.
>>REGINA: Let's get
to the prosperity one.
[LAUGHTER]
>>RUDD: And the irony
is that, actually, you
need to do the emotional work
in order for the prosperity.
But you can start there.
It's just reverse engineering.
And so in the Pearl
sequence, which
is a very beautiful series of
transmissions and teachings,
you can look at your
Keys, and they show you
how you're designed to prosper.
But the shadow
patterns show you how
you get in the way of yourself.
And you also have
to re-understand
what is prosperity.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RUDD: It's not just
about having money.
>>REGINA: It's not being
on the cover of a magazine.
>>RUDD: It's not about
being successful.
>>REGINA: No.
>>RUDD: It's actually a
much deeper total thing
in your whole of your life.
Prosperity involves
your relationships.
It involves your
family, community.
It involves everything.
So it's a whole
new attitude shift.
So the Pearl opens us up.
It's very magical teaching.
A lot of people use it
in there to help them
with their businesses, to help
them with shifting the energy
and the frequency of
how they see money.
And I've done lots of
talks and things on that.
But it's really revolutionary.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
OK, so I just wanted
to lay it out,
because people are looking
at their charts right now,
so they know what the intention
of each of those sequences is.
And I want to mention also
that you and your team
are working on a relationship
app for the Venus sequence,
which is really exciting.
That's where I was saying,
that has pop appeal.
Because it's going
to be fun for people
to look at, really
tongue-in-cheek, like, oops,
you might want to
think about this one.
>>RUDD: Yeah, we were
sharing some of those.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>RUDD: Yeah, it is profound.
It's relationship chemistry.
So you can use these
Keys and these Gene Keys
to read relationship chemistry.
And so, yeah, my team and
I are writing that one
and creating it.
A lot of insights have come.
And we're going to show it
as a bit tongue-in-cheek,
but also, it's profound.
So it's showing a
specific chemistry.
If you think about
any relationship,
there's a third component,
which is the chemistry itself.
And the chemistry has
its own intelligence.
It's neither you or that one.
It's created in the interference
field of the two of you.
And how you surrender,
and understand,
and work with that chemistry,
and finally, bring harmony out
of it, is a lifelong
process in any relationship.
So it's fun, because
you'll be able to look.
And we've given them all names.
And they're funny names as well.
We've given them like shadow
names, which are horrible.
And we've given them
really beautiful, ecstatic,
wild names.
>>REGINA: I love it.
I can't wait till
that comes out.
I've already told people
that you-- my few friends.
They're going to do it.
They can't wait for the app.
But it's interesting,
because when
we were talking a
couple of weeks ago,
you said out of this, there are
like 21 major connection points
that people have
that show you can
have a soul connection, an
intellectual connection,
emotional, physical, and so on.
But that out of all of those--
the Holy Grail that people
in the Western world
look for is romance--
only three of the potential--
>>RUDD: 21.
>>REGINA: --21 connections are
actually romantic by nature.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
And even if you find one,
they're really hard to manage,
because it requires distance.
It requires that you
maintain the longing.
So you can fall in love with
someone, but the more familiar
you become, if you don't
maintain that longing,
you lose the beauty
of the relationship.
>>REGINA: I love
the nuances there.
>>RUDD: And there are different
types of longing as well.
So, yeah, you're
right, the thing
we're looking for is
actually-- it's quite rare.
>>REGINA: It is quite rare,
and it requires distance,
so there you go.
So one other thing, because we
have just a couple of minutes
left, I wanted to
say is, I was doing
Gene Keys maybe a year
or so ago with a couple
of my female friends.
And what I found
so interesting is
that as we were going
through our primary Keys,
it was so easy for women--
and I found this sense--
women to see their
Shadow, oh, yeah,
I do that, I do that, but harder
for women to see the Gift.
Now, this goes with
societal conditioning,
historical conditioning,
ancestral conditioning.
And even if you look
at serotonin levels,
white men have the
highest serotonin levels.
Everybody else has lower levels.
And so it's
interesting, because we
were able to say,
wait a minute, you
can't see this
beauty in yourself?
And so doing it
together was fun,
because we were validating each
other's gifts that we may not
have been seeing.
And so that was the
beauty in the group work.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
And it's what I see a lot in
the Gene Keys global community
is the women get there
quicker, generally,
because they're willing
to look at the Shadows.
The men are a little bit
more tentative about that.
Not all of them, of course,
but, generally, it's
hard-- that's why the
men go for the Pearl.
>>REGINA: Where
are my power Keys?
>>RUDD: Yeah, exactly.
So you've got to bring the men--
and I'm, obviously, one of them.
So one of my missions
is to bring the men down
into the emotional realm
so that they actually do
start to unlock those patterns.
Because then they become just
a much more holistic, happier
being.
And they don't have to hide
in addictive work tendencies,
or whatever it is
that they hide in.
They actually integrate--
become integrated in the world.
>>REGINA: This is an
important mission, by the way.
>>RUDD: Yeah, huge.
>>REGINA: Very important,
so that females and males
can integrate emotionally.
Yeah, that's important.
>>RUDD: Yeah, because the
women have been saying forever,
where are the men?
>>REGINA: Where are the men?
>>RUDD: Where are the really--
not this fluffy, New Age men,
the really deep, gutsy men
who've done their bloody work.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>RUDD: Where are they?
>>REGINA: Yeah, right.
Where are they?
>>RUDD: So my mission is to
help more men get to that.
>>REGINA: Good for you.
OK, so we're out of time here.
I just want to say, the last
time I had you on camera
here was so many years ago.
It's a new audience.
It was-- we were trying
to figure it out--
six or seven years
ago, in London,
and you had this shock of
long red hair at the time.
>>RUDD: Yeah, my Jesus face.
>>REGINA: Yeah, your Jesus face.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah, aligning
with your potency.
So, anyway, we went through some
of those things at that time.
But your work has
evolved, you've evolved,
Gaia has evolved,
we've evolved, so,
and you have a
new audience here,
so I'm really happy to
introduce people to you.
>>RUDD: Well, thank you.
>>REGINA: So any final
thoughts before we sign off?
>>RUDD: I think I'd just say to
people who are watching this,
just the thing I said about
pausing, whether you use
the little app or not, just
if you can harvest a few more
pauses in your everyday life
and just see what magic jumps
into them, I think you're
going to find your life
starts to take a new course.
>>REGINA: I absolutely
believe you.
>>RUDD: It's that simple.
That's why I got it in under
100 pages, it's that simple.
>>REGINA: Love it.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So that's "The
Art of Contemplation."
Triple Flame in the App Store.
And then we've got the
Relationship Flame coming up,
just some months in the future.
And, of course, the main
work is the Gene Keys.
>>RUDD: Yes.
>>REGINA: So Richard,
thank you so much.
>>RUDD: Thank you.
>>REGINA: I know we're
going to continue
doing more in the
future here on Gaia,
so thank you for coming back
and joining me once again.
>>RUDD: Thank you for having me.
>>REGINA: Again, you can go
to genekeys.com and pull up
your free profile, if
you haven't already.
From there, you can enter into
deeper study via video classes
and much more.
It's a worthy endeavor, with
a wonderful global community
to support you and join in with.
Again, genekeys.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."